Open MPI updates (#2655)
RadeonOpenCompute/ROCm: docs/how-to/gpu-enabled-mpi.rst

***************************************************************************************************
GPU-enabled MPI
***************************************************************************************************

The Message Passing Interface (`MPI <https://www.mpi-forum.org>`_) is a standard API for distributed
and parallel application development that can scale to multi-node clusters. To facilitate the porting of

> applications to clusters with GPUs, ROCm enables various technologies. You can use these

Reviewer: Looks good.

Missing 'to' in 'to add'? 

>You can use these technologies add GPU pointers to MPI calls and enable ROCm-aware MPI libraries to deliver optimal
performance for both intra-node and inter-node GPU-to-GPU communication.

memory, resulting in high-speed direct memory access (DMA) transfers between GPU and NIC. These
interfaces are used to optimize inter-node MPI message communication.

The Open MPI project is an open source implementation of the MPI. It's developed and maintained by
a consortium of academic, research, and industry partners. To compile Open MPI with ROCm support,
refer to the following sections:

* :ref:`open-mpi-ucx`
* :ref:`open-mpi-libfabric`

.. _open-mpi-ucx:

ROCm-aware Open MPI on InfiniBand and RoCE networks using UCX
================================================================

The `Unified Communication Framework <https://www.openucx.org/documentation>`_ (UCX), is an
open source, cross-platform framework designed to provide a common set of communication
interfaces for various network programming models and interfaces. UCX uses ROCm technologies to
implement various network operation primitives. UCX is the standard communication library for
InfiniBand and RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE) network interconnect. To optimize data
transfer operations, many MPI libraries, including Open MPI, can leverage UCX internally.

> To set up UCX so that it can be used to compile Open MPI, refer to the following instructions.

Reviewer: Change from
To set up UCX so that it can be used to compile Open MPI, refer to the following instructions.

Change to
To set up UCX for compiling Open MPI, refer to the following instructions.

Author: I'm not sure about this. @edgargabriel what do you think?

Reviewer 2: not sure I see a major difference in the clarity between the two version, I don't really have a preference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
UCX and Open MPI have a compile option to enable ROCm support. To install and configure UCX to compile Open MPI for ROCm, use the following instructions.
```

Reviewer 3: @edgargabriel can you take a look at the suggestion above.

Reviewer 2: @saadrahim your suggested changes look good to me

> To set up UCX so that it can be used to compile Open MPI, refer to the following instructions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
UCX and Open MPI have a compile option to enable ROCm support. To install and configure UCX to compile Open MPI for ROCm, use the following instructions.
```

1. Set environment variables to install all software components in the same base directory. We use the
home directory in our example, but you can specify a different location if you want.

    .. code-block:: shell

        export INSTALL_DIR=$HOME/ompi_for_gpu
        export BUILD_DIR=/tmp/ompi_for_gpu_build
        mkdir -p $BUILD_DIR

> 2. Instal UCX. To view UCX and ROCm version compatibility, refer to the

Reviewer: Typo? Install

> `communication libraries tables <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/reference/gpu_libraries/communication.html>`_.

Author: @edgargabriel I think we need to change this link: do you mind verifying?

Reviewer 2: the correct link should be : https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/release/3rd_party_support_matrix.html

    .. code-block:: shell

        export UCX_DIR=$INSTALL_DIR/ucx
        cd $BUILD_DIR
        git clone https://github.com/openucx/ucx.git -b v1.15.x
        cd ucx
        ./autogen.sh
        mkdir build
        cd build
        ../configure -prefix=$UCX_DIR \
            --with-rocm=/opt/rocm
        make -j $(nproc)
        make -j $(nproc) install

> 3. Install Open MPI.

Author: @samjwu do you know what the alignment is wonky with #3 (in the html version)?

Reviewer 4: RST seems to be indenting 3. due to link in 2.

https://snippets.documatt.com/

Author: Any chance you know of a way to fix it without removing that link?

Reviewer 3: Can you use ssh based clones instead? Figure out the details later. I think it is linkify messing things up.

Reviewer 2: the https version is usually preferred in such a scenario since it doesn't require a github account to perform the checkout. However, we can make the change for now to make sure that this gets in 6.0

The git clone in line 53 would have to be replaced by
```
git clone git@github.com:openucx/ucx.git -b v1.15.x
```

in lines 69/70  and lines 237/238 with
```
git clone --recursive  git@github.com:open-mpi/ompi.git -b v5.0.x
```

in line 161
```
git clone git@github.com:openucx/ucc.git -b v1.2.x
```

in line 220
```
git clone git@github.com:ofiwg/libfabric.git -b v1.19.x
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe the correct solution long term is to use the released tar files of the libraries instead of using the git repositories (i.e. `wget` instead of `git clone`), but since this changes the required steps for the compilation (e.g. no autogen required) I would prefer to do that in a later stage

    .. code-block:: shell

        export OMPI_DIR=$INSTALL_DIR/ompi
        cd $BUILD_DIR
        git clone --recursive https://github.com/open-mpi/ompi.git \
            -b v5.0.x
        cd ompi
        ./autogen.pl
        mkdir build
        cd build
        ../configure --prefix=$OMPI_DIR --with-ucx=$UCX_DIR \
            --with-rocm=/opt/rocm
        make -j $(nproc)
        make install

.. _rocm-enabled-osu:

> ROCm-enabled OSU

Reviewer: Per our guideline, expand the abbreviation in the heading?

Author: OSU seems to be the common usage (I can't even find it expanded on the internet). @edgargabriel thoughts?

Reviewer: Perhaps OSU benchmarks? @edgargabriel

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can use OSU Micro Benchmarks (OMB) to evaluate the performance of various primitives on
ROCm-supported AMD GPUs. The ``--enable-rocm`` option exposes this functionality.

.. code-block:: shell

    export OSU_DIR=$INSTALL_DIR/osu
    cd $BUILD_DIR
    wget http://mvapich.cse.ohio-state.edu/download/mvapich/osu-micro-benchmarks-7.2.tar.gz
    tar xfz osu-micro-benchmarks-7.2.tar.gz
    cd osu-micro-benchmarks-7.2
    ./configure --enable-rocm \
        --with-rocm=/opt/rocm \
        CC=$OMPI_DIR/bin/mpicc CXX=$OMPI_DIR/bin/mpicxx \
        LDFLAGS="-L$OMPI_DIR/lib/ -lmpi -L/opt/rocm/lib/ \
        $(hipconfig -C) -lamdhip64" CXXFLAGS="-std=c++11"
    make -j $(nproc)

Intra-node run
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before running an Open MPI job, you must set the following environment variables to ensure that

> you're using the correct versions of Open MPI and UCX.

Reviewer: you are

Author: I'm intentionally using contractions to make content less formal/more approachable.

Reviewer: Sounds good. Please add it as a guideline.
